Add prerelease option to dotnet.exe add package command (#9699)
NuGet/Home: designs/Prerelease-Option.md

## Who are the customers

All dotnet.exe customers

## Goals

Allow dotnet CLI users to install the latest version of a NuGet package, including prerelease versions. This can be accomplished by adding an option to the existing command `add package` that enables installing the last version, including prerelease versions.

## Non-Goals

## Solution

Add the option `--prerelease` in the command `add package`. This command will get the latest version of the package available even if it is not a stable version.

When searching for the latest version available, only listed packages will be considered.

### Scenarios

| Command | Available Versions | Output Version | Description |
|---------|--------------------|------------------|-------------|
| `dotnet.exe add Contoso.Library` | Contoso.Library 2.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.3.1-preview.3 <br> | 3.0.0 | latest stable version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add Contoso.Library --prerelease` | Contoso.Library 2.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.3.1-preview.3 <br> | 3.3.1-preview.3 | latest version of package |

> | `dotnet.exe add Contoso.Library --prerelease --version 3.0.0` | Contoso.Library 2.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.0.0 <br> Contoso.Library 3.3.1-preview.3 <br> | error | The user cannot use the `--prerelease` and `--version` commands at the same time |

Reviewer: Should we error for `dotnet.exe add Contoso.Library --prerelease --version 3.0.0` or just ignore the --prerelease and let it work since the intent to install version 3.0.0 seems clear? I think that exact scenario is less likely, but I could potentially see someone doing  `dotnet.exe add Contoso.Library --prerelease --version 3.0.0-preview` thinking they need --prerelease to install it.

Erroring makes sense if that's the standard behavior of dotnet.exe in these kinds of scenarios.

Reviewer 2: I think it's ok to error when the options provided are confusing and do not make sense. 

The https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/reference/cli-reference/cli-ref-trusted-signers command throws a bunch of, hey you can't combine these switches errors.

# Spec Name

* Status: In Review
* Author(s): [Martin Ruiz](https://github.com/martinrrm)
* Issue: [4699](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/4699) dotnet add package - support for NuGet "Pre" version

## Problem Background

> Customers want to add the latest version of a package to their project, even tough it is a prerelease version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customers want to add the latest version of a package to their project, even if the latest version is prerelease.
```

## Who are the customers

All dotnet.exe customers

## Goals

> Add an option to the command `add package` enable installing latest prerelease version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add an option to the command `add package` to enable installing latest prerelease version.
```

## Non-Goals

## Solution

> Add the option `--prerelease` in the command `add package`. This command should get the latest version of the packet available even if it is not a stable version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the option `--prerelease` in the command `add package`. This command should get the latest version of the package available even if it is not a stable version.
```

> Add the option `--prerelease` in the command `add package`. This command should get the latest version of the packet available even if it is not a stable version.

Reviewer 2: You want to call out that this command will get the latest `listed` package. 

For reference see: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/publish-nuget-package

Specifically https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/nuget-org/policies/deleting-packages.

The idea behind listed/unlist packages is that, I as an author have decided that the package version I published had some issues and do not want it to be discoverable. So I unlist it. 

A user can explicitly request and use an unlisted version, but the author does not want it to be appear in search, like when you go to nuget.org and search: See example: https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=mypackage

> 

Reviewer 2: I would add a ### Scenarios heading or something like that, to clearly call attention to the section.

```package 2.0.0
package 3.0.0
package 3.3.1-preview.3
```

| Command | Result | Description |
|---------|--------|--------------|
| `dotnet.exe add package` | 3.0.0 | latest stable version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease` | 3.3.1-preview.3 | latest version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease --version 3.0.0` | error | The user cannot use this commands at the same time |

> ```package 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: nit: 
when you format put it on a new line.

Reviewer 3: A couple of questions/observations:
1. Using the —prerelease option should get the latest version including prerelease. Correct?
2. I find the name of the option a bit long. Can we also enable —pre may in addition to —prerelease? - a nit

Reviewer 2: 1. Yes. Similar to how the PM UI behaves. If you have the prerelease filter we show you the latest version if it's prerelease. 

2. We just opted for the full name cause I haven't seen option names not being the exact word. We can't really do --pre as  short hand. A short option must be one letter only. 
So we either have `--prerelease` or `--pre`.

Reviewer: Personally, I'd rather go with the options that is the most instinctual. So if I forgot what the options were but I wanted to enable prereleases, my instinct would be to add `--prerelease` not `--pre` even tho it's shorter. I think intuitiveness > saving a couple key strokes.

Reviewer 4: I vote sticking with `--prerelease` because it's the most instinctive and is the wording used in other client tools such as PMUI and nuget.exe. If I forget what the options are and want to install a prerelease package, my instinct would be to try `--prerelease` before `--pre`.

package 3.0.0
package 3.3.1-preview.3
package 3.4.0
```

| Command | Result | Description |
|---------|--------|--------------|
| `dotnet.exe add package` | 3.4.0 | latest stable version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease` | 3.4.0 | latest version of package |

## Future Work

## Open Questions

> 

Reviewer 2: A potential open question should be whether we add a shorthand version for prereleae. 

See --framework for example from https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference#options.

## Considerations

### References

> * <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference>

Reviewer 2: Use a link like so [dotnet add package reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference)

```suggestion
* [dotnet add package reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference)
```

# Spec Name

* Status: In Review
* Author(s): [Martin Ruiz](https://github.com/martinrrm)
* Issue: [4699](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/4699) dotnet add package - support for NuGet "Pre" version

## Problem Background

Customers want to add the latest version of a package to their project, even if the latest version is prerelease.

## Who are the customers

All dotnet.exe customers

## Goals

> Add an option to the command `add package` to enable installing latest prerelease version.

Reviewer: Just nitpick, but I think the goal should be framed as helping a customer accomplish a "job to be done." In this case the goal should be something like:

 "Allow dotnet CLI users to easily install the latest version of NuGet package, including prereleases. This can be accomplished by adding an option to the existing `add package` that enables installing prerelease versions."

## Non-Goals

## Solution

> Add the option `--prerelease` in the command `add package`. This command will get the latest version of the package available even if it is not a stable version.

Reviewer: Has there been any consideration to allow specification of prerelease-enabled floating versions with the `dotnet add package` command? for example:

`dotnet add package newtonsoft.json *-*`

Today `dotnet add package newtonsoft.json 12.*` will work, but `dotnet add package newtonsoft.json *-*` will return `error: '*-*' is not a valid version string.`

Reviewer: Maybe you would need to add `--prerelease` so that would work?:
`dotnet add package --prerelease newtonsoft.json *-*`

Reviewer 2: `dotnet add package Nuget.common --version "*-*"` works for me. 

Remember you need 3.1.300 for `*-*` support.

Reviewer: OOOHHHH that makes sense, thanks 👌

When searching for the latest version available, only listed packages will be considered.

### Scenarios

Packages available

```

> package 2.0.0

Reviewer 5: Is 0.9 considered prerelease?
given versions:
0.8
0.9

with --prerelease -> 0.9
without -> fail ?

Reviewer 3: I don’t think so and @nkolev92 can confirm. The definition of prerelease is a version with “-“ in it.

Reviewer 2: Nope, as @anangaur mentioned, prerelease requires a `-` in the version. 
`0.9` is just a weird stable :D 

For reference: https://nugettoolsdev.azurewebsites.net/5.5.0-preview.2.6382/parse-version?version=0.9

Reviewer 6: Is there any formatting that includes the - for a non-preview version or doesn't have the - for a preview version?  Is that formatting enforced in other places as well and documented?

Reviewer 2: > Is there any formatting that includes the - for a non-preview version or doesn't have the - for a preview version?

Nope, that's per the semver specification. 
Documented here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/concepts/package-versioning

Reviewer 5: Looks like I can restore a package without 1.0 with *. So that should be fine

```
<PackageReference Include="xunit.analyzers" Version="*" />
```

package 3.0.0
package 3.3.1-preview.3
```

| Command | Result | Description |
|---------|--------|--------------|
| `dotnet.exe add package` | 3.0.0 | latest stable version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease` | 3.3.1-preview.3 | latest version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease --version 3.0.0` | error | The user cannot use this commands at the same time |

Packages available

```
package 2.0.0
package 3.0.0
package 3.3.1-preview.3

> package 3.4.0

Reviewer: These examples are kind of confusing because the full command is `dotnet add package <packageId>`. So using a an example package named "package" makes it hard to grok. Maybe using Newtonsoft.Json would work better?

Reviewer 7: Or maybe something like `Consoto.Library` to reduce confusion of versions of `Newtonsoft.Json` that don't actually exist on nuget.org.

```

| Command | Result | Description |
|---------|--------|--------------|
| `dotnet.exe add package` | 3.4.0 | latest stable version of package |
| `dotnet.exe add package --prerelease` | 3.4.0 | latest version of package |

## Future Work

* When the design has been approved, we will create an issue with the [dotnet.exe team](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk)

## Open Questions

> * Do we need to add a shorthand version for prerelease? `--p`

Reviewer 2: My vote here would be no, because `--p` makes me think property.

Reviewer 5: same here. I don't think we need a short hand. One letter shorthands are precious (need to work across all commandline).
